Dear Ruben,

 

Thank you for the e-mail. After discussions in the bank we propose following with respect to Satnam Estonia Veerenni 36 development.

 

GENERAL

We are fully supportive of the land plot development due to land plot attractive location in the City of Tallinn and due to market situation in Tallinn, where available stock of ready apartments has decreased.

 

Considering Merko expertise with residential development and Merko ability to carry out projects of similar size, we think that Merko is good choice as development partner for Veerenni 36 site.

 

COOPERATION GOING FORWARD

At the moment, bank has financed land purchase in the amount of 16,7 MEUR. Bank is also willing to consider financing construction of the apartment houses. In line with banking regulations, bank assesment of the collateral and bank internal regulations, this can be done provided that bank has 1'st rank mortgage over the financed land plot; both for the current land loan and/or additional financing.

 

In general, our mandate from shareholders is clearly that of providing senior lending only. Moving  down  in ranking to a  lower rank mortgage does clearly move us further away from this principle. 

 

At the same time, you propose that a contractor takes a position of a senior lender. This effectively brings in a new senior financing while not adding equity. This happens at the time, when the project, from bank 's  point of view, requires rather more equity to be injected. 

 

Hence we could also advise you to increase equity in the project which would benefit both for the start of the development construction and for the servicing of the loan during the time of difficult cash flows.

  

MODIFICATION OF EXISTING AGREEMENTS

Bank has financed  Veerenni 36 land plot since 2005. Loan amount has been increased from 4,47 MEUR in April 2005 to 17,3 MEUR in 2006. Between 2006 and 2009 Satnam repaid principal to the amount of current exposure, i.e. 16,7 MEUR.

 

In April 2009, loan schedule was changed so as to have 18 month interest only period and 18 month amortizing schedule. In April 2009, Satnam issued comfort letter stating that Satnam is able to fulfill the above schedule. In line with other group company (Capfield/Fontex) refinancing Satnam confirmed that Veerenni 36 loan servicing will be fulfilled.

 

Following from the above banks expects that Satnam honors current Veerenni 36 loan schedule.

 

MORTGAGES

Provided that Satnam fulfills agreed upon loan repayment schedule for Veerenni 36 land plot,  we are willing to consider having mortgages in favour of Satnam Investments Ltd. to the first available rank after Swedbank mortgages.

 

I hope our answer gives a basis for moving forwards with cooperation on Veereni 36 landplot.

 

Best regards,

 

Henri Pullisaar
Swedbank AS
Tel: +372 888 6212
Fax: +372 888 7688 

 

   _____  

From: Ruben Gornischeff [mailto:Ruben.Gornischeff@satnameurope.ee] 
Sent: Tuesday, September 21, 2010 3:07 PM
To: Henri Pullisaar
Cc: Rene Zibo; Colin Griffiths
Subject: veerenni 36

Dear Henri Pullisaar,

 

Satnam Estonia OÜ has tried for several last weeks to find solutions for Veerenni 36 development site and specially regarding cooperation agreement on 1st  phase residential development. Also we have been on negotiations with Swedbank regarding loan restructuring and Satnam mortgages. Here is our proposal to Swedbank as a result of long negotiations between Merko Ehitus AS, Swedbank and us,  that we belie is the best we can achieve in this market situation.

 

We would like to use this opportunity and explain one more time why we think Merko Ehitus is good partner:

-          Merko as one of the biggest construction companies will bring stability and quality to the project;

-          Merko as probably the biggest residential developer will bring market knowledge to the project;

-          Merko helps us to develop technically and property wise best product with less time; 

-          Last but not least - Merko would not invest its own monies unless it thought this was a very good site.

 

The main idea of the proposal is to agree solutions how to start developing the Veerenni site and therefore start producing long waited cash flow. As we have understood Swedbank would like to look all aspects simultaneously and we appreciate that, therefore the proposal includes three separate but same time connected issues: development and finance agreement, loan amortization agreement and Satnam mortgages. 

 

DEVELOPMENT/ CONSTRUCTION FINANCE:

1.       First Rank Security to Swedbank for up to 490 Euros pm2 construction finance.

2.       Second Rank Security to Merko for up to the agreed build finance.

3.       Third Rank Security for Swedbank for 300 Euros pm2 land costs.

Rationale:

Development finance creates the residential units to sell on this site, thereby creating the development and enabling development sales. Therefore the construction/ development finance should be first rank security and repaid first. Swedbank have a mortgage on the remainder of the site, which is currently valued in excess of the loan amount (33m Euros vs. 17m Euros); and development on phase 1 will enhance and clarify this value on the remainder.

 

AMORTIZATION:

-          Swedbank will grant a further 18 months of interest only on this loan. 

-          Satnam Estonia will pay this interest monthly from own resources until the development cash flow begins, from which both interest and capital repayments (up to 300 Euros PM2) will be paid.

Rationale:

The unwelcome Appeal lodged late 2009 has held up the development of the Veerenni 36 site. The timescale of the conduct of the appeal is, of course, outside the control of Satnam. For this reason the development of the site, including the selection of a Development Partner and the preparation of the various documents for the approval of Building Permits etc has been severely delayed.

Nevertheless, Satnam Estonia are willing to service this loan at this critical stage in the development of this important development site, but the cash resources required to make capital repayments without development sales is not a feasible option. The amortization of this loan is only able to be achieved from the development of the site, as now proposed by Satnam.

Clearly, previous representations made to the Bank by Satnam Estonia as to the servicing of this loan were made on the basis of the best information available at that time and as we all know, circumstances have changed affecting this project.

 

MORTGAGES:

-          Satnam Investments Ltd to have first available security position after Swedbank over the remainder of the land plot.

Rationale:

Satnam Estonia is funded from external sources, including a large amount of funding from Satnam Investments Ltd (UK). These investments, and the further investments Satnam need to make in this site need to be protected and acknowledged and so Satnam Investments Ltd require a mortgage over the remainder of the land plot, lower ranking than that of Swedbank, to reflect this position.

 

Please circulate the proposal internally and send us feedback how we can go forward from here. All additional questions are very welcome!

 

Best regards,

 

Ruben Gornischeff

Tegevjuht

Satnam Europe OÜ

 

Tartu mnt 2, 10145 Tallinn

Mob   50 11 164

Tel      664 4060

Faks    664 4061

E-post HYPERLINK "mailto:ruben@satnameurope.ee"ruben@satnameurope.ee

 

 

*****
This message, including any attachments, is confidential, may be privileged and is intended only for the use of the addressee. Any use, disclosure or copying of this message in whole or in part not in accordance with its intended purpose is prohibited. If you have received this message in error, please notify the sender immediately by return e-mail and delete this message and all its copies, including all attachments. We apologise for any inconvenience caused.  

 

Käesoleva teate sisu, sh sellele lisatud failid, on konfidentsiaalne ja on mõeldud ainult kasutamiseks teate adressaadile. Igasugune käesoleva teate kasutamine, avaldamine ja kopeerimine vastuolus selle eesmärgiga on keelatud. Juhul, kui te olete saanud käesoleva teate eksituse tõttu, siis palume teil teavitada koheselt selle saatjat ning kustutada teade koos lisatud failidega. Vabandame tekitatud ebameeldivuste eest.
*****

 

 

 

No virus found in this incoming message.
Checked by AVG - www.avg.com 
Version: 9.0.856 / Virus Database: 271.1.1/3146 - Release Date: 09/28/10 20:41:00
